Working with local content: new details and summary table (#2557)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/working-with-local-content.md

These approaches are described below.

> 

Reviewer: @david-risney - table at top seems to flow: first decide which approach to select for your scenario, then read the section about that approach.

> 

Reviewer: @david-risney -- locally, added an h2 and lead-in for the table.  d/k if will keep list.  I doubt we'll use visual content in cells; must be text for text readers.

```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Selecting an approach

Each approach for loading local content into a WebView2 control has certain capabilities or limitations regarding its ability to handle these scenarios:
* Origin-based DOM APIs.
* DOM APIs requiring secure context.
* Dynamic content.
* Additional web resources.
* Additional web resources that are resolved in a WebView2 process.
```

> 

Reviewer: 3.  Dup'ing content: The different considerations are described inline in the different options. For example, in the NavigateToString option, I have added text including '...you cannot use any DOM API that depends on the origin like localStorage, or indexedDB.'

    Is this good enough, versus some more explicit listing of the details of the considerations that is separate from the explanation of the different options?

Ans: tbd

> 

Reviewer: DR's question 1 from main page of PR:

tbd

Reviewer: probably can Resolve this conversation

> 

Reviewer: DR's question 2 from main page of PR:

tbd

Reviewer: I entered some possible lead-ins inline in the Markdown listing, as a Suggested Change comment, so the present conversation can probably be Resolved.

> 

Reviewer: DR's question 3 from main page of PR:

tbd

Reviewer: @david-risney -- I think the table (whether text cells or emojis) effectively complements the details in the h2 sections.

It's possible for you to incorp my PR comments and then the PR could be merged.  Maybe in a later PR if needed we could add a structured, consistent list / h4 section in each h2 section.  

Locally I drafted such an h4 (Limitations of loading local content by navigating to an HTML string) and h6's (eg Origin-based DOM APIs) -- In h2 section "Navigate to an HTML string".  We might want to implement this consistent set of headings in each h2.

Author: > It's possible for you to incorp my PR comments and then the PR could be merged. Maybe in a later PR if needed we could add a structured, consistent list / h4 section in each h2 section.

Yes that sounds good to me.

Reviewer: We ended up with me creating a PR to add h6s for each row of the new table, in each main h2 section, then merged that PR into this PR.  The present thread can be Resolved.

> 

Reviewer: DR's question 4 from main page of PR:

tbd

Reviewer: In writers thread I'm asking whether to go towards eg:

```
A hyphen in the following table indicates Not Supported:

| Scenario | Navigating to a file URL | Navigating to an HTML string | Virtual host name mapping | `WebResourceRequested` |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Origin-based DOM APIs | Supported | - | Supported | Supported |
| DOM APIs requiring secure context | - | - | Supported | Supported |
| Dynamic content | - | Supported | - | Supported |
| Additional web resources | Supported | - | Supported  | Supported |
| Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process | Supported | - | Supported | - |

For details, see the following sections.
```

Author: Ok then should we resolve this comment?

Reviewer: yes

> | Consideration | Navigating to a file URL | Navigating to an HTML string | Virtual host name mapping | `WebResourceRequested` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Selecting an approach

The approaches for loading local content into a WebView2 control support the following scenarios.

| Scenario | Navigating to a file URL | Navigating to an HTML string | Virtual host name mapping | `WebResourceRequested` |
```

Author: I like it!

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Origin based DOM APIs | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| DOM APIs requiring secure context | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
| Dynamic content | ❌ | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️ |
| Additional web resources | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️  | ✔️ |
| Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️ | ❌ |

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Navigate to a file URL

WebView2 allows navigations to file URLs, to load basic HTML or a PDF.  This is the simplest and most efficient approach to loading local content.  However, it is less flexible than the other approaches.  Like in a web browser, file URLs are limited in some capabilities:

> *  The document has an origin that is unique to each file, just like in the browser. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage`, `indexedDB`, and others will work, but different file URL documents are not considered same origin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  The document has an origin that is unique to each file, just like in the browser. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, but different file URL documents are not considered "same origin".
```
* "such as" is redun. w/ "and others".  simplified.
* feel the special tech term warrants offset-quotes here.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Selecting an approach

> The approaches for loading local content into a WebView2 control support the following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The various ways of loading local content into a WebView2 control support the following scenarios:
```

> 

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45407486/234641799-280db193-06c2-43ef-a59c-42c16e9d8a83.png)

Mac fyi

Author: I think its OK? Again open to alternative emojis or 'supported'/'not supported' text if you like.

Reviewer: thread can be Resolved

> | Scenario | Navigating to a file URL | Navigating to an HTML string | Virtual host name mapping | `WebResourceRequested` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Scenario | By navigating to a file URL | By navigating to an HTML string | By using virtual host name mapping | By using `WebResourceRequested` |
```
to differentiate the "approaches" from the "scenarios" supported by each approach

> | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --- |:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
```
center-justified, more readable for this type of table

> | Origin-based DOM APIs | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
> | DOM APIs requiring secure context | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ | ✔️ |
> | Dynamic content | ❌ | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️ |
> | Additional web resources | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️  | ✔️ |
> | Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process | ✔️ | ❌ | ✔️ | ❌ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Origin-based DOM APIs | Supported | Not supported | Supported | Supported |
| DOM APIs requiring secure context | Not supported | Not supported | Supported | Supported |
| Dynamic content | Not supported | Supported | Not supported | Supported |
| Additional web resources | Supported | Not supported | Supported  | Supported |
| Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process | Supported | Not supported | Supported | Not supported |
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

These scenarios are described in more detail below.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Loading local content by navigating to a file URL

WebView2 allows navigations to file URLs, to load basic HTML or a PDF.  This is the simplest and most efficient approach to loading local content.  However, it is less flexible than the other approaches.  Like in a web browser, file URLs are limited in some capabilities:
*  The document has an origin that is unique to each file, just like in the browser. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, but different file URL documents are not considered "same-origin".

> *  Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to file URLs. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to file URLs. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs.
```
, among others -- sufficiently implied

file:///C:/Users/username/Documents/GitHub/Demos/demo-to-do/index.html
```

###### Cross-origin resources

When specifying a file URL, the app navigates to a specific path, not a domain.  As a result, you can't use cross-origin resources for navigating to a file URL, because `location.origin` is `file://` and cross-origin rules are different for file URLs.

###### Origin-based DOM APIs

Documents loaded via file URL has an origin that is unique to each file, just like in the browser. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, but different file URL documents are not considered "same-origin".

###### DOM APIs requiring secure context

> Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to file URLs. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others. See [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to file URLs. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs. See [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) for more information.
```
, among others -- sufficiently implied, though this paragraph could possibly need it more than where there's a phrase like "such as".

###### Dynamic content

Loading local content via file URLs is getting content from static files on the disk. There is no opportunity to dynamically modify the local content while it is loaded by the file URL.

###### Additional web resources

> file URLs support relative URL resolution and so an HTML document served via file URL can have CSS, script, image, and so on references that are also served via file URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File URLs support relative URL resolution.  So, an HTML document served via file URL can have references such as CSS, script, and image that are also served via file URLs.
```

> File URLs support relative URL resolution.  So, an HTML document served via file URL can have references such as CSS, script, and image that are also served via file URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File URLs support relative URL resolution.  So, an HTML document that's served via file URL can have references such as CSS, script, and image that are also served via file URLs.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/t/that-vs-which -- "Include _that_ even if the sentence is clear without it. It helps to clarify the sentence structure."
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with -- "In instructions or technical content, use _by using_ or _that use_ to eliminate ambiguity."

###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

> file URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is the faster option compared to `WebResourceRequested` which resolves in the host app process UI thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is a faster option than `WebResourceRequested`, which resolves in the host app process UI thread.
```

Another scenario where navigating to a string might be useful is if you want to load content that is not accessible via a URL. For example, if you have an in-memory representation of an HTML document, you could use the `NavigateToString` method to load that content into the WebView2 control.  This can be useful if you want to avoid the need to write the content to a file or server before loading it into the control.

> `NavigateToString` has the drawback that you can only specify the string content of the HTML document and there is no way to represent additional web resources like CSS, images, script and so on. Instead, if you want to reference additional web resources from your HTML document you will need to use one of the other mechanisms described in this document, or represent those additional web resources inline in the HTML document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NavigateToString` has the drawback that you can only specify the string content of the HTML document; there is no way to represent additional web resources such as CSS, images, or script. Instead, if you want to reference additional web resources from your HTML document, you need to use one of the other mechanisms described in this article, or represent those additional web resources inline in the HTML document.
```

> Additionally, `NavigateToString` has as its document URI `about:blank` and `null` as its origin. This means you cannot use any DOM API that depends on the origin like `localStorage`, or `indexedDB`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, `NavigateToString` has as its document URI `about:blank` and `null` as its origin. This means you cannot use any DOM API that depends on the origin, such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB`.
```

> Just like for file URLs described above, some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to NavigateToString documents. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like for file URLs described above, some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to `NavigateToString` documents. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Loading local content by navigating to an HTML string

Another method to load local content is the `NavigateToString` method.  This approach loads the content into WebView2 directly from a string.  This can be useful if you will be packaging the content via the app code, or if you'd like to dynamically create the content.

Another scenario where navigating to a string might be useful is if you want to load content that is not accessible via a URL. For example, if you have an in-memory representation of an HTML document, you could use the `NavigateToString` method to load that content into the WebView2 control.  This can be useful if you want to avoid the need to write the content to a file or server before loading it into the control.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Considerations for loading local content by navigating to an HTML string

###### Origin-based DOM APIs

> `NavigateToString` has as its document URI `about:blank` and `null` as its origin. This means you cannot use any DOM API that depends on the origin, such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NavigateToString` has `about:blank` as its document URI, and has `null` as its origin. This means you cannot use any DOM API that depends on the origin, such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB`.
```
parallelism for clarity

###### DOM APIs requiring secure context

> Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to the `about:blank` URI that `NavigateToString` uses. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others. See [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to the `about:blank` URI that `NavigateToString` uses. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others. For more information, see [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts).
```
standard order/pattern, enabled adding "at foo.com", eg, to clarify link if needed.  enables "For more info about X, see Y."

###### Dynamic content

todo

###### Additional web resources

`NavigateToString` has the drawback that you can only specify the string content of the HTML document; there is no way to represent additional web resources, such as CSS, images, or script. Instead, to reference additional web resources from your HTML document, you must use one of the other mechanisms described in this article, or represent those additional web resources inline in the HTML document.

###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

> Just like for file URLs described above, some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and are not available to `NavigateToString` documents. This includes webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others.

Author: ```suggestion
`NavigateToString` does not support additional web resources as mentioned above.
```

> `NavigateToString` has the drawback that you can only specify the string content of the HTML document; there is no way to represent additional web resources, such as CSS, images, or script. Instead, to reference additional web resources from your HTML document, you must use one of the other mechanisms described in this article, or represent those additional web resources inline in the HTML document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NavigateToString` has the drawback that you can only specify the string content of the HTML document; there's no way to represent additional web resources, such as CSS, images, or script. Instead, to reference additional web resources from your HTML document, you must use one of the other mechanisms described in this article, or represent those additional web resources inline in the HTML document.
```
corp style favors contraction unless need separate words for emphasis.  contraction seems to give suitable tone here

> `NavigateToString` does not support additional web resources as mentioned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NavigateToString` does not support additional web resources, as mentioned above.
```

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Loading local content by using virtual host name mapping

Another way to load local content in a WebView2 control is to use virtual host name mapping.  This involves mapping a local domain name to a local folder, so that when the WebView2 control attempts to load a resource for that domain, it will load the content from the specified local folder location instead. The origin of the document will also be the virtual host name. 

> Due to a current limitation, media files that are accessed using a virtual host name can be slow to load.<!-- when limitation is fixed, remove sentence -->
> 
> This approach lets you specify the cross-origin access, by using the `CoreWebView2HostResourceAccessKind` enum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach lets you specify the cross-origin access, by using the `CoreWebView2HostResourceAccessKind` enum.

Due to a current limitation, media files that are accessed using a virtual host name can be slow to load.<!-- when limitation is fixed, remove sentence -->
```
better flow by moving limitation to bottom.
@david-risney - is there a better place for this limitation down in an h6 section, or keep up here?

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Considerations for loading local content by using virtual host name mapping

###### Origin-based DOM APIs

todo

###### DOM APIs requiring secure context

todo

###### Dynamic content

todo

###### Additional web resources

todo

###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

> todo

Author: ```suggestion
Virtual host name URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is the faster option compared to `WebResourceRequested` which resolves in the host app process UI thread.
```

> Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and using virtual host name mapping essentially provides https URLs for your local content. This means webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others are all available. See [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs. Using virtual host name mapping essentially provides https URLs for your local content. This means APIs such as webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs are all available. For more information, see [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts).
```

> When loading local content via a virtual host name mapping you are mapping a virtual host name to a local folder of static files. Just like file URLs, there is no opportunity to dynamically modify the local content while it is loaded by the virtual host name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When loading local content via a virtual host name mapping, you are mapping a virtual host name to a local folder of static files. Just like file URLs, there is no opportunity to dynamically modify the local content while it is loaded by the virtual host name.
```

> Local content loaded via virtual host names have http and https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution and so an HTML document served via virtual host names can have CSS, script, image, and so on references that are also served via virtual host names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local content loaded via virtual host names have http and https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution, and so an HTML document served via virtual host names can have references such as CSS, script, and image references that are also served via virtual host names.
```

> Local content loaded via virtual host names have http and https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution, and so an HTML document served via virtual host names can have references such as CSS, script, and image references that are also served via virtual host names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local content that's loaded via virtual host names has http or https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution, and so an HTML document that's served via virtual host names can have references such as CSS, script, and image references that are also served via virtual host names.
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/t/that-vs-which -- "Include that even if the sentence is clear without it. It helps to clarify the sentence structure."
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/u/using-by-using-with -- "In instructions or technical content, use by using or that use to eliminate ambiguity."

> Virtual host name URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is the faster option compared to `WebResourceRequested` which resolves in the host app process UI thread.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual host name URLs are resolved in WebView2 processes. This is a faster option than `WebResourceRequested`, which resolves in the host app process UI thread.
```

This approach lets you specify the cross-origin access, by using the `CoreWebView2HostResourceAccessKind` enum.

Due to a current limitation, media files that are accessed using a virtual host name can be slow to load.<!-- when limitation is fixed, remove sentence -->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Considerations for loading local content by using virtual host name mapping

###### Origin-based DOM APIs

Local content loaded via virtual host name mapping has an http or https URL and a corresponding origin. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, and the usual ["same-origin" rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) apply.

###### DOM APIs requiring secure context

Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs. Using virtual host name mapping essentially provides https URLs for your local content. This means APIs such as webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs are all available. For more information, see [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts).

###### Dynamic content

> When loading local content via a virtual host name mapping, you are mapping a virtual host name to a local folder of static files. Just like file URLs, there is no opportunity to dynamically modify the local content while it is loaded by the virtual host name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When loading local content via a virtual host name mapping, you are mapping a virtual host name to a local folder that contains static files on disk. This means that it's not possible to dynamically modify this local content. This is different from loading documents from a web server, where each response can be dynamically generated.
```

###### Additional web resources

> Local content that's loaded via virtual host names has http or https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution, and so an HTML document that's served via virtual host names can have references such as CSS, script, and image references that are also served via virtual host names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Local content that's loaded via virtual host name mapping has an HTTP or HTTPS URL which supports relative URL resolution This means that the loaded document can have references to additional web resources such as CSS, script, or image files which are also served via virtual host name mapping.
```

> Local content that's loaded via virtual host name mapping has an HTTP or HTTPS URL which supports relative URL resolution This means that the loaded document can have references to additional web resources such as CSS, script, or image files which are also served via virtual host name mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local content that's loaded via virtual host name mapping has an HTTP or HTTPS URL which supports relative URL resolution. This means that the loaded document can have references to additional web resources such as CSS, script, or image files which are also served via virtual host name mapping.
```

From WebView2's perspective, the resource will have come via the network, and WebView2 will adhere to the headers that are set by the app as part of the response. Using the `WebResourceRequested` event is also slower than other approaches, due to the needed cross-process communication and processing per each request.

> Unlike file URLs and virtual host name mappings, which are resolved in the WebView2 networking process, the `WebResourceRequested` event has to be raised on your WebView2's UI thread in your host app process. This means the WebView2 will pause loading a web page to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process, and then wait for your UI thread to be available, and then wait for your app code to handle the event. This can take some time so make sure that your calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` are appropriately limited to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike file URLs and virtual host name mappings, which are resolved in the WebView2 networking process, the `WebResourceRequested` event is raised on your WebView2's UI thread in your host app process. This means the WebView2 will pause loading a web page to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process, and then wait for your UI thread to be available, and then wait for your app code to handle the event. This can take some time, so make sure that your calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` are appropriately limited to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.
```
* re: changing from "has to be" to the simple "is" - whether to apply this change depends on your judgment of what connotations you want to highlight.
* comma

`WebResourceRequested` allows you to customize the behavior of local content on a per-request basis. This means you can decide which requests to intercept and provide your own content for, and which requests to let the WebView2 control handle normally.  However, customizing the behavior requires more code, such as virtual host mapping, and requires knowledge of HTTP, to be able to construct a proper response. 

From WebView2's perspective, the resource will have come via the network, and WebView2 will adhere to the headers that are set by the app as part of the response. Using the `WebResourceRequested` event is also slower than other approaches, due to the needed cross-process communication and processing per each request.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Considerations for loading local content by handling the WebResourceRequested event

###### Origin-based DOM APIs

> Local content loaded via WebResourceRequested an http or https URL and a corresponding origin. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, and the usual ["same-origin" rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local content loaded via `WebResourceRequested` has an http or https URL and a corresponding origin. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, and the usual ["same-origin" rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) apply.
```

###### DOM APIs requiring secure context

> Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs and using WebResourceRequested allows you to replace https URL web resource requests with your own local content and so these browser features are available. This means webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs, among others are all available. See [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs. Using `WebResourceRequested` allows you to replace https URL web resource requests with your own local content, and so these browser features are available. This means APIs such as webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs are all available. For more information, see [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts).
```

###### Dynamic content

> When loading local content via `WebResourceRequested` you specify the local content to load in your event handler. Since you are directly providing the local content you can dynamically modify it in any manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When loading local content via `WebResourceRequested`, you specify the local content to load in your event handler. Since you are directly providing the local content, you can dynamically modify it in any manner.
```
commas insert pause in screenreaders

###### Additional web resources

> Local content loaded via `WebResourceRequested` modifies content loaded via http and https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution and so an HTML document served via `WebResourceRequested` can have CSS, script, image, and so on references that are also served via `WebResourceRequested`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local content loaded via `WebResourceRequested` modifies content that's loaded via http and https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution, and so an HTML document that's served via `WebResourceRequested` can have references such as CSS, script, and image references that are also served via `WebResourceRequested`.
```
per style guide, tend to include optional words to increase clarity of parsing

###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

> Unlike file URLs and virtual host name mappings, which are resolved in WebView2 processes, the `WebResourceRequested` event is raised on your WebView2's UI thread in your host app process. This means the WebView2 will first pause loading a web page to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process, and then wait for your UI thread to be available, and then wait for your app code to handle the event. This can take some time, so make sure that your calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` are appropriately limited to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike file URLs and virtual host name mappings, which are resolved in WebView2 processes, the `WebResourceRequested` event is raised on your WebView2's UI thread in your host app process. This means the WebView2 will first pause loading a web page to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process, and then wait for your UI thread to be available, and then wait for your app code to handle the event. This can take some time, so make sure that your calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` are limited to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.
```
judgment call.  i stumble on "appropriately", distracting, seems redundant, raises more complexity, not a net gain by adding that word?

## Loading local content by handling the WebResourceRequested event

Another way you can host local content in a WebView2 control is by relying on the `WebResourceRequested` event.  This event is triggered when the control attempts to load a resource.  You can use this event to intercept the request and provide the local content, as described in [Custom management of network requests](../how-to/webresourcerequested.md).

`WebResourceRequested` allows you to customize the behavior of local content on a per-request basis. This means you can decide which requests to intercept and provide your own content for, and which requests to let the WebView2 control handle normally.  However, customizing the behavior requires more code, such as virtual host mapping, and requires knowledge of HTTP, to be able to construct a proper response. 

From WebView2's perspective, the resource will have come via the network, and WebView2 will adhere to the headers that are set by the app as part of the response. Using the `WebResourceRequested` event is also slower than other approaches, due to the needed cross-process communication and processing per each request.

> Unlike file URLs and virtual host name mappings, which are resolved in the WebView2 networking process, the `WebResourceRequested` event is raised on your WebView2's UI thread in your host app process. This means the WebView2 will first pause loading a web page to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process, and then wait for your UI thread to be available, and then wait for your app code to handle the event. This can take some time, so make sure that your calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` are appropriately limited to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

Author: ```suggestion
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Considerations for loading local content by handling the WebResourceRequested event

###### Origin-based DOM APIs

todo

###### DOM APIs requiring secure context

todo

###### Dynamic content

todo

###### Additional web resources

todo

###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

> todo

Author: ```suggestion
Unlike file URLs and virtual host name mappings, which are resolved in WebView2 processes, the `WebResourceRequested` event is raised on your WebView2's UI thread in your host app process. This means the WebView2 will first pause loading a web page to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process, and then wait for your UI thread to be available, and then wait for your app code to handle the event. This can take some time, so make sure that your calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` are appropriately limited to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.
```

`WebResourceRequested` allows you to customize the behavior of local content on a per-request basis. This means you can decide which requests to intercept and provide your own content for, and which requests to let the WebView2 control handle normally.  However, customizing the behavior requires more code, such as virtual host mapping, and requires knowledge of HTTP, to be able to construct a proper response. 

From WebView2's perspective, the resource will have come via the network, and WebView2 will adhere to the headers that are set by the app as part of the response. Using the `WebResourceRequested` event is also slower than other approaches, due to the cross-process communication and processing that's needed for each request.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Considerations for loading local content by handling the WebResourceRequested event

###### Origin-based DOM APIs

> Local content loaded via `WebResourceRequested` has an http or https URL and a corresponding origin. So APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, and the usual ["same-origin" rules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Local content loaded via `WebResourceRequested` results in a document that has an HTTP or HTTPS URL and a corresponding origin. This means that web APIs that require an origin such as `localStorage` or `indexedDB` will work, and other documents that belong to the same origin will be able to use the stored data. For more information, see [Same-origin policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) on MDN.
```

###### DOM APIs requiring secure context

> Some newer browser features are limited to https URLs. Using `WebResourceRequested` allows you to replace https URL web resource requests with your own local content, and so these browser features are available. This means APIs such as webcam APIs, geolocation APIs, and notification APIs are all available. For more information, see [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some web APIs are limited to secure HTTPS URLs only. Using `WebResourceRequested` allows you to replace HTTPS URL web resource requests with your own local content. This means that APIs such as `navigator.mediaDevices.getUserMedia()` to acquire video or sound, `navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition()` to access the device's location, or `Notification.requestPermission()` to request the user's permission to display notifications are available. See [Secure contexts](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts) on MDN for more information.
```

###### Dynamic content

> When loading local content via `WebResourceRequested`, you specify the local content to load in your event handler. Since you are directly providing the local content, you can dynamically modify it in any manner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When loading local content via `WebResourceRequested`, you specify the local content to load in your event handler. This means you are in control of the content at runtime, and you can dynamically generate it if needed.
```

###### Additional web resources

> Local content that's loaded via `WebResourceRequested` modifies content that's loaded via http and https URLs. These URLs support relative URL resolution, and so an HTML document that's served via `WebResourceRequested` can have references such as CSS, script, and image references that are also served via `WebResourceRequested`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`WebResourceRequested` modifies the content that's loaded via HTTP or HTTPS URLs, which support relative URL resolution. This menas that the resulting document can have references to additional web resources such as CSS, script, or image files that are also served via `WebResourceRequested`.
```

###### Additional web resources resolved in WebView2 process

> Unlike file URLs and virtual host name mappings, which are resolved in WebView2 processes, the `WebResourceRequested` event is raised on your WebView2's UI thread in your host app process. This means the WebView2 will first pause loading a web page to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process, and then wait for your UI thread to be available, and then wait for your app code to handle the event. This can take some time, so make sure that your calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` are limited to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When loading content via a file URL or a virtual host name mapping, the resolution happens in the WebView2 processes. However, the `WebResourceRequested` event is raised on the WebView2 UI thread of your host app process, which may lead to slower loading of the resulting document.

1. WebView2 first pauses loading the web page in order to wait for the event to be sent to your host app process.
1. WebView2 then waits for your UI thread to be available.
1. WebView2 then waits for your app code to handle the event.

This can take some time. Make sure to limit calls to `AddWebResourceRequestedFilter` to only the web resources that must raise the `WebResourceRequested` event.
```
